well nearly 100 French journalists have
signed a petition demanding access to
Gaza and protection for journalists
covering the conflict for years
journalists have been unable to enter
the Gaza Strip without permission from
Israeli authorities now they can't enter
at all we'll hear from Rebecca rits in
southern Israel again this time on the
challenges facing her and other
reporters as they try to uh record
events in the
territory this is the spot where Crews
from all over the world come to set up
to try to get the story out about what's
happening in Gaza it's been dubbed the
hill of Shame Shame because although
it's about as close as we can get to
Gaza at the moment it's still around
about 2 km from the border from here you
can see with a zoom lens some of the
activity happening in the northern part
of the strip you can see aerial
bombardments and you can hear outgoing
arti arery from the Israelis into the
strep you can sometimes see tanks and
even hear combat fighting on the ground
but it's frustrating for so many
journalists here and and brings about a
bit of professional shame that they're
not able to get inside the strip and
tell people stories or bear witness to
what's happening with their own eyes I'm
covering this conflict 30 years or
something uh so I think that this is the
worst war ever
that I am covering now uh it's uh yeah
it's not uh so good to me as a reporter
to uh be in the border line uh to cover
this conflict it's very difficult now to
uh to get real information from Gaza and
from the other side as well it's a war
it's a war also in the media and We Know
It the weight of getting accurate
information out of the Gaza Strip lies
heavily on the shoulders of those few
journalists many of them gazin who were
inside already working inside the Gaza
Strip on October 7th many of them have
now sadly died in this conflict and
those that remain are dealing not only
with the deteriorating humanitarian
conditions and fear of bombardment but
also of unspeakable losses
themselves that's Rebecca RS in southern
Israel Christopher rash is from
reporters Without Borders so welcome to
DW How concerned are you that foreign
journalists can't get into the Gaza
Strip yes IO from my side as well and of
course we are very much concerned I mean
since the blockade Israel imposed 16
years ago the journalist cannot enter
the territory without author
authorization uh and now Israeli
authorities don't allow journalists to
enter the Gaza Strip at all the only
possibility would be through the Rafa CR
Crossing in the South but this is closed
um on a on a general level I mean the
work of journalists is essential during
times of armed conflicts like these we
just heard from the colleagues how
dangerous it is and how sad they are
that they can't inide to report um
timely reporting helps ensure the
respect for international human rights
and humanitarian law and prevent further
violations and also it can be essential
and life-saving in times of conflicts so
so we need independent reporting from
inside the strip but we need also much
more protection and and this is just so
difficult right now okay so we've heard
and you've reiterated that war is a
dangerous business doesn't Israel have a
duty of care to keep non-combatants like
journalists out of Harm's
Way yes of course in rsf in our point of
view and from our perspective um they
have Israel has the
responsibilities uh to protect much more
and and this is why we um just filed a
complaint two days ago before the
international criminal court U detailing
possible I I repeat possible um war
crimes um while targeting civilian areas
and with these targeting also targeting
and uh eventually killing um Palestinian
journalists um I understand that the
Israeli government says um are on the
point that the Hamas Liberty hides their
their positions in civilian areas but uh
still there is a responsibility to take
as much protection and Care um as as the
Israeli Army can right I'm slightly
confused by your answer because on the
one hand you say that you want to get
into what is clearly a war zone uh and
that uh uh Israel is impeding that so
you want to get in and you want them to
protect you while acknowledging that
they have a duty to keep you out of
Harm's Way well again I would imagine
Israel would argue the safest place for
you is not to be inside a war
zone sure and I understand the confusion
you see me slightly smiling but that
that's the way of uh conflict reporting
you know I mean I trust the season
colleagues that are in Israel right now
and um I mean the French colleagues
signed a petition I think by 150 people
signed it to go inside I think they they
can trust we we can trust them to take
the risk and we need this reporting we
need the reporting to be as safe and
secure as can be but we need the
reporting because otherwise Gaza will
turn to an informational black hole and
we we we can't want that I understand
that the war in is shaping up to be the
deadliest single event for journalists
for decades how many journalists have
been
killed I mean obviously the numbers are
hard to really Point down but um and
there are I mean rsf is not the only um
International pressre oranization
watching in the conflict I mean all all
are our numbers are at 34 killed right
now um and this would be I mean Wars are
especially deadly when the when they
begin but the first two three weeks of
this war is the deadliest of any armed
conflict in the world for media
Professionals in this in this Century uh
we have 12 people 12 journalists
confirmed to be killed in connection to
their work there is one in Lebanon one
in Israel and and 10 in Gaza and until
now we have 34 in total but we need to
determine whether they are have been
killed in connection or because of their
were given right and I'd like to focus
on one in particular um this is Roy's
journalist Isam abdalah he died in air
strikes in southern Lebanon that also
wounded other journalists and reporters
Without Borders I understand believes
that these journalists were deliberately
targeted yeah we believe that they have
been deliberately targeted we have
investigated this incident uh it was on
Friday October 13th around 6 p.m 6 in
the evening and um from what we know
from what we see there was um a team of
journalists actually there were two
groups of people one team of journalists
consisting of seven people is abdalah
being one of them and they were clearly
visible on a on an kind of ele elevated
area they had press signs on them they
had a vehicle a car with a big press
sign on it they were in the area for
like an hour and there was according to
our research an Apache military
helicopter by the Israeli Army hovering
around and probably monitoring and still
they have been targeted uh the Liber as
we think because they have been targeted
twice 367 seconds in between and um I
mean of course we have to be very much
careful with accusations but from the
the the the pieces of information we
were able to gather this looks like it a
bread strike and what has Israel said
about your
accusation can you repeat that sorry
there was a in the line what has Israel
said about your ACC yes I can hear you
now
sorry I'll say it again what has Israel
said about your
accusation yeah we have yet to hear an
official reply but immediately after the
strike they declared that they were
story and they were looking into it and
we hope this investigation
continues so if true would this do do
you believe this would constit
constitute a specific
crime if true this would be a war
crime which would have to be uh
determined I suppose by the uh the ICC
um we thank you for joining us and
outlining that so clearly Christopher
rash media relations officer for
reporters Without Borders Germany thank
you thank
you